Description and Goals of the Proposed Independent Study
  a. A well-defined question or project must be presented in the proposed independent study.
  b. A statement regarding the significance of the question and/or context of the project.
  c. A statement of impact regarding how the information or deliverable will be utilized after the independent study is completed and how the student will benefit from the experience. 

For this independent study, the student will implement the elliptic curve digital signing algorithm (ECDSA) in hardware (FPGA-based). In addition, the student will verify the performance and correctness of the implementation through a battery of simulations, unit tests, formal proofs, and other verification methods. Finally, the student will compare the performance of the hardware implementation to software implementations in terms of speed, resource and power utilization, as well as having a stretch goal of characterizing the robustness of the implementation to various side-channel attacks.

ECDSA offers a variant of the digital signing algorithm (DSA). It utilizes elliptic-curve cryptography (ECC) to provide secure, efficient signatures and signature verification. ECDSA is widely used to ensure data integrity and authentication, and it plays a critical role in digital communications and transactions. For example, ECDSA is commonly used in transport layer security (TLS), in secure shell (SSH), and even in the signing and verification of transactions for several prominent digital currency protocols. Moreover, ECDSA and cryptosystems like it are of critical importance to the security, integrity, and privacy of the digital systems that we all rely upon in the modern world. 

As the student already has some exposure to cryptography, and to some of the key cryptosystems in use today (e.g. RSA, AES, ChaCha20, etc), confronting ECDSA is a natural next step in their education in this critical field. At the same time, cryptography is fraught with unique and challenging difficulties, and the number of ways to ’get it wrong’ are countless. There are undoubtedly implementations of nearly every cryptosystem, existing in the wild, which contain critical vulnerabilities due solely (or in part) to their implementations. Not only will this independent study provide a safe, low-stakes environment in which to explore ECDSA, and just some of the difficulties that may arise with this cryptosystem, it will also empower the student to go out into the world and to communicate effectively about the challenges of ECDSA specifically, of cryptography generally, and about why it is often sage advice to not ’roll your own crypto.’ Finally, the knowledge gained through this experience will allow the student to contribute meaningfully as a member of engineering teams implementing and verifying a wide range of computer hardware systems that make use of similar components, constructs, and calculations.


Method of Conducting and Evalutaing the Independent Study
  a. A complete description of methods used to investigate or evaluate the findings or test the viability of the project.
  b. A clearly defined mechanism for communicating the findings of the project, e.g. written report, oral presentation, demonstration, testing. Please briefly describe the content of any deliverables, e.g. product, literature review, methods, results, etc.
  c. Describe how the project will be evaluated by the sponsoring faculty member supervising the independent study. For example, describe the criteria that your professor will use to determine the grade that you earn in this project.

The principal deliverable for the independent study project will be an FPGA-based implementation of the ECDSA cryptosystem. The implementation will entail the creation of several hardware modules, to include: 1) a true random number generator (TRNG), 2) a signature producing module (the "signer"), and 3) a signature verification module (the "verifier"). In addition, the student will develop firmware to allow external devices to interact with the hardware (e.g. UART or other serial interface). Meta-parameters such as the key size, elliptic curve, generator, and hash function will be decided based upon a careful review of the literature but will adhere closely to well-studied and established standards (e.g. NIST, ISO/IEC, X9, ANSI, etc). The finished product should allow a user to provide as input a key, message (or message hash), and (optionally) a signature, and it shall produce either a valid signature on the message (for a given private key) or else it shall verify that a valid signature was provided for the message by the hodler of the private key corresponding to a given public key. The computer hardware implementation shall be accompanied by a robust testbench that formally verifies the correctness of the algorithm and that further verifies the proper operation of the hardware implementation.

The project will require the student to interface with a dense literature spanning multiple knowledge domains. In particular, the student will need to grapple with the mathematical literature underpinning the ECDSA cryptosystem, along with the IEEE 1800-2017 Standard for SystemVerilog and other resources related to the formal verification of computer hardware systems (e.g first-order logic, Z3, Dafny, etc). A review of this literature will accompany a written report ("documentation") for the project, and will detail the hardware implementation, along with block diagrams, logic flowcharts, and any other information that a user of the hardware might require to enjoy full use of the product. It is anticipated that this documentation will take the form of a 5-10 page pamphlet which can be packaged with the computer hardware, testbenches, and source codes. Together, the hardware implementation, firmware, and documentation will constitute in full the student’s deliverables at the end of the project, and these materials will be evaluated by the professor to determine satisfactory completion of the independent study project.

The student and the professor will hold regular, in-person meetings to discuss the project and the student's progress. The student will also reach out to recommended faculty in the Electrical and Computer Engineering, Math/Applied Math, and Computer Science departments as recommended and/or required regarding cryptography, formal verification, or any other particular subject matter expertise.

